README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
  <br>
  <img width="300" src="./core/http/static/logo.png"> <br>
<br>
</h1>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/fork" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/forks/go-skynet/LocalAI?style=for-the-badge" alt="LocalAI forks"/>
</a>
<a href="https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/stargazers" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/go-skynet/LocalAI?style=for-the-badge" alt="LocalAI stars"/>
</a>
<a href="https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/pulls" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/go-skynet/LocalAI?style=for-the-badge" alt="LocalAI pull-requests"/>
</a>
<a href='https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/releases'>
<img src='https://img.shields.io/github/release/go-skynet/LocalAI?&label=Latest&style=for-the-badge'>
</a>
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://hub.docker.com/r/localai/localai" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/dockerhub-images-important.svg?logo=Docker" alt="LocalAI Docker hub"/>
</a>
<a href="https://quay.io/repository/go-skynet/local-ai?tab=tags&tag=latest" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/quay.io-images-important.svg?" alt="LocalAI Quay.io"/>
</a>
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://twitter.com/LocalAI_API" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/X-%23000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=X&logoColor=white&label=LocalAI_API" alt="Follow LocalAI_API"/>
</a>
<a href="https://discord.gg/uJAeKSAGDy" target="blank">
<img src="https://dcbadge.vercel.app/api/server/uJAeKSAGDy?style=flat-square&theme=default-inverted" alt="Join LocalAI Discord Community"/>
</a>
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://trendshift.io/repositories/5539" target="_blank"><img src="https://trendshift.io/api/badge/repositories/5539" alt="mudler%2FLocalAI | Trendshift" style="width: 250px; height: 55px;" width="250" height="55"/></a>
</p>

> :bulb: Get help - [❓FAQ](https://localai.io/faq/) [💭Discussions](https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/discussions) [:speech_balloon: Discord](https://discord.gg/uJAeKSAGDy) [:book: Documentation website](https://localai.io/)
>
> [💻 Quickstart](https://localai.io/basics/getting_started/) [🖼️ Models](https://models.localai.io/) [🚀 Roadmap](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aroadmap) [🥽 Demo](https://demo.localai.io) [🌍 Explorer](https://explorer.localai.io) [🛫 Examples](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI-examples) Try on 
[![Telegram](https://img.shields.io/badge/Telegram-2CA5E0?style=for-the-badge&logo=telegram&logoColor=white)](https://t.me/localaiofficial_bot)

[![tests](https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/actions/workflows/test.yml)[![Build and Release](https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/actions/workflows/release.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/actions/workflows/release.yaml)[![build container images](https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/actions/workflows/image.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/actions/workflows/image.yml)[![Bump dependencies](https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/actions/workflows/bump_deps.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/actions/workflows/bump_deps.yaml)[![Artifact Hub](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://artifacthub.io/badge/repository/localai)](https://artifacthub.io/packages/search?repo=localai)

**LocalAI** is the free, Open Source OpenAI alternative. LocalAI act as a drop-in replacement REST API that's compatible with OpenAI (Elevenlabs, Anthropic... ) API specifications for local AI inferencing. It allows you to run LLMs, generate images, audio (and not only) locally or on-prem with consumer grade hardware, supporting multiple model families. Does not require GPU. It is created and maintained by [Ettore Di Giacinto](https://github.com/mudler).


## 📚🆕 Local Stack Family

🆕 LocalAI is now part of a comprehensive suite of AI tools designed to work together:

<table>
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="top">
      <a href="https://github.com/mudler/LocalAGI">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mudler/LocalAGI/refs/heads/main/webui/react-ui/public/logo_2.png" width="300" alt="LocalAGI Logo">
      </a>
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="top">
      <h3><a href="https://github.com/mudler/LocalAGI">LocalAGI</a></h3>
      <p>A powerful Local AI agent management platform that serves as a drop-in replacement for OpenAI's Responses API, enhanced with advanced agentic capabilities.</p>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="top">
      <a href="https://github.com/mudler/LocalRecall">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mudler/LocalRecall/refs/heads/main/static/localrecall_horizontal.png" width="300" alt="LocalRecall Logo">
      </a>
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="top">
      <h3><a href="https://github.com/mudler/LocalRecall">LocalRecall</a></h3>
      <p>A REST-ful API and knowledge base management system that provides persistent memory and storage capabilities for AI agents.</p>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Screenshots


| Talk Interface | Generate Audio |
| --- | --- |
| ![Screenshot 2025-03-31 at 12-01-36 LocalAI - Talk](./docs/assets/images/screenshots/screenshot_tts.png) | ![Screenshot 2025-03-31 at 12-01-29 LocalAI - Generate audio with voice-en-us-ryan-low](./docs/assets/images/screenshots/screenshot_tts.png) |

| Models Overview | Generate Images |
| --- | --- |
| ![Screenshot 2025-03-31 at 12-01-20 LocalAI - Models](./docs/assets/images/screenshots/screenshot_gallery.png) | ![Screenshot 2025-03-31 at 12-31-41 LocalAI - Generate images with flux 1-dev](./docs/assets/images/screenshots/screenshot_image.png) |

| Chat Interface | Home |
| --- | --- |
| ![Screenshot 2025-03-31 at 11-57-44 LocalAI - Chat with localai-functioncall-qwen2 5-7b-v0 5](./docs/assets/images/screenshots/screenshot_chat.png) | ![Screenshot 2025-03-31 at 11-57-23 LocalAI API - c2a39e3 (c2a39e3639227cfd94ffffe9f5691239acc275a8)](./docs/assets/images/screenshots/screenshot_home.png) |

| Login | Swarm |
| --- | --- |
|![Screenshot 2025-03-31 at 12-09-59 ](./docs/assets/images/screenshots/screenshot_login.png) | ![Screenshot 2025-03-31 at 12-10-39 LocalAI - P2P dashboard](./docs/assets/images/screenshots/screenshot_p2p.png) |

## 💻 Quickstart

Run the installer script:

```bash
# Basic installation
curl https://localai.io/install.sh | sh
```

For more installation options, see [Installer Options](https://localai.io/docs/advanced/installer/).

Or run with docker:

### CPU only image:

```bash
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 localai/localai:latest
```

### NVIDIA GPU Images:

```bash
# CUDA 12.0
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 --gpus all localai/localai:latest-gpu-nvidia-cuda-12

# CUDA 11.7
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 --gpus all localai/localai:latest-gpu-nvidia-cuda-11

# NVIDIA Jetson (L4T) ARM64
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 --gpus all localai/localai:latest-nvidia-l4t-arm64
```

### AMD GPU Images (ROCm):

```bash
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 --device=/dev/kfd --device=/dev/dri --group-add=video localai/localai:latest-gpu-hipblas
```

### Intel GPU Images (oneAPI):

```bash
# Intel GPU with FP16 support
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 --device=/dev/dri/card1 --device=/dev/dri/renderD128 localai/localai:latest-gpu-intel-f16

# Intel GPU with FP32 support
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 --device=/dev/dri/card1 --device=/dev/dri/renderD128 localai/localai:latest-gpu-intel-f32
```

### Vulkan GPU Images:

```bash
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 localai/localai:latest-gpu-vulkan
```

### AIO Images (pre-downloaded models):

```bash
# CPU version
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 localai/localai:latest-aio-cpu

# NVIDIA CUDA 12 version
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 --gpus all localai/localai:latest-aio-gpu-nvidia-cuda-12

# NVIDIA CUDA 11 version
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 --gpus all localai/localai:latest-aio-gpu-nvidia-cuda-11

# Intel GPU version
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 localai/localai:latest-aio-gpu-intel-f16

# AMD GPU version
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 --device=/dev/kfd --device=/dev/dri --group-add=video localai/localai:latest-aio-gpu-hipblas
```

For more information about the AIO images and pre-downloaded models, see [Container Documentation](https://localai.io/basics/container/).

To load models:

```bash
# From the model gallery (see available models with `local-ai models list`, in the WebUI from the model tab, or visiting https://models.localai.io)
local-ai run llama-3.2-1b-instruct:q4_k_m
# Start LocalAI with the phi-2 model directly from huggingface
local-ai run huggingface://TheBloke/phi-2-GGUF/phi-2.Q8_0.gguf
# Install and run a model from the Ollama OCI registry
local-ai run ollama://gemma:2b
# Run a model from a configuration file
local-ai run https://gist.githubusercontent.com/.../phi-2.yaml
# Install and run a model from a standard OCI registry (e.g., Docker Hub)
local-ai run oci://localai/phi-2:latest
```

> ⚡ **Automatic Backend Detection**: When you install models from the gallery or YAML files, LocalAI automatically detects your system's GPU capabilities (NVIDIA, AMD, Intel) and downloads the appropriate backend. For advanced configuration options, see [GPU Acceleration](https://localai.io/features/gpu-acceleration/#automatic-backend-detection).

For more information, see [💻 Getting started](https://localai.io/basics/getting_started/index.html)

## 📰 Latest project news

- July/August 2025: 🔍 [Object Detection](https://localai.io/features/object-detection/) added to the API featuring [rf-detr](https://github.com/roboflow/rf-detr)
- July 2025: All backends migrated outside of the main binary. LocalAI is now more lightweight, small, and automatically downloads the required backend to run the model. [Read the release notes](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/releases/tag/v3.2.0)
- June 2025: [Backend management](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/5607) has been added. Attention: extras images are going to be deprecated from the next release! Read [the backend management PR](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/5607).
- May 2025: [Audio input](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/5466) and [Reranking](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/5396) in llama.cpp backend, [Realtime API](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/5392),  Support to Gemma, SmollVLM, and more multimodal models (available in the gallery).
- May 2025: Important: image name changes [See release](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/releases/tag/v2.29.0)
- Apr 2025: Rebrand, WebUI enhancements
- Apr 2025: [LocalAGI](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAGI) and [LocalRecall](https://github.com/mudler/LocalRecall) join the LocalAI family stack.
- Apr 2025: WebUI overhaul, AIO images updates
- Feb 2025: Backend cleanup, Breaking changes, new backends (kokoro, OutelTTS, faster-whisper), Nvidia L4T images
- Jan 2025: LocalAI model release: https://huggingface.co/mudler/LocalAI-functioncall-phi-4-v0.3, SANA support in diffusers: https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/4603
- Dec 2024: stablediffusion.cpp backend (ggml) added ( https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/4289 )
- Nov 2024: Bark.cpp backend added ( https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/4287 )
- Nov 2024: Voice activity detection models (**VAD**) added to the API: https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/4204
- Oct 2024: examples moved to [LocalAI-examples](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI-examples)
- Aug 2024:  🆕 FLUX-1, [P2P Explorer](https://explorer.localai.io)
- July 2024: 🔥🔥 🆕 P2P Dashboard, LocalAI Federated mode and AI Swarms: https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/2723. P2P Global community pools: https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/issues/3113
- May 2024: 🔥🔥 Decentralized P2P llama.cpp:  https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/2343 (peer2peer llama.cpp!) 👉 Docs  https://localai.io/features/distribute/
- May 2024: 🔥🔥 Distributed inferencing: https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/2324
- April 2024: Reranker API: https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/2121

Roadmap items: [List of issues](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aroadmap)

## 🚀 [Features](https://localai.io/features/)

- 🧩 [Backend Gallery](https://localai.io/backends/): Install/remove backends on the fly, powered by OCI images — fully customizable and API-driven.
- 📖 [Text generation with GPTs](https://localai.io/features/text-generation/) (`llama.cpp`, `transformers`, `vllm` ... [:book: and more](https://localai.io/model-compatibility/index.html#model-compatibility-table))
- 🗣 [Text to Audio](https://localai.io/features/text-to-audio/)
- 🔈 [Audio to Text](https://localai.io/features/audio-to-text/) (Audio transcription with `whisper.cpp`)
- 🎨 [Image generation](https://localai.io/features/image-generation)
- 🔥 [OpenAI-alike tools API](https://localai.io/features/openai-functions/) 
- 🧠 [Embeddings generation for vector databases](https://localai.io/features/embeddings/)
- ✍️ [Constrained grammars](https://localai.io/features/constrained_grammars/)
- 🖼️ [Download Models directly from Huggingface ](https://localai.io/models/)
- 🥽 [Vision API](https://localai.io/features/gpt-vision/)
- 🔍 [Object Detection](https://localai.io/features/object-detection/)
- 📈 [Reranker API](https://localai.io/features/reranker/)
- 🆕🖧 [P2P Inferencing](https://localai.io/features/distribute/)
- [Agentic capabilities](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAGI)
- 🔊 Voice activity detection (Silero-VAD support)
- 🌍 Integrated WebUI!


### 🔗 Community and integrations

Build and deploy custom containers:
- https://github.com/sozercan/aikit

WebUIs:
- https://github.com/Jirubizu/localai-admin
- https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI-frontend
- QA-Pilot(An interactive chat project that leverages LocalAI LLMs for rapid understanding and navigation of GitHub code repository) https://github.com/reid41/QA-Pilot

Model galleries
- https://github.com/go-skynet/model-gallery

Other:
- Helm chart https://github.com/go-skynet/helm-charts
- VSCode extension https://github.com/badgooooor/localai-vscode-plugin
- Langchain: https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/providers/localai/
- Terminal utility https://github.com/djcopley/ShellOracle
- Local Smart assistant https://github.com/mudler/LocalAGI
- Home Assistant https://github.com/sammcj/homeassistant-localai / https://github.com/drndos/hass-openai-custom-conversation / https://github.com/valentinfrlch/ha-gpt4vision
- Discord bot https://github.com/mudler/LocalAGI/tree/main/examples/discord
- Slack bot https://github.com/mudler/LocalAGI/tree/main/examples/slack
- Shell-Pilot(Interact with LLM using LocalAI models via pure shell scripts on your Linux or MacOS system) https://github.com/reid41/shell-pilot
- Telegram bot https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/tree/master/examples/telegram-bot
- Another Telegram Bot https://github.com/JackBekket/Hellper
- Auto-documentation https://github.com/JackBekket/Reflexia
- Github bot which answer on issues, with code and documentation as context https://github.com/JackBekket/GitHelper
- Github Actions: https://github.com/marketplace/actions/start-localai
- Examples: https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/tree/master/examples/
  

### 🔗 Resources

- [LLM finetuning guide](https://localai.io/docs/advanced/fine-tuning/)
- [How to build locally](https://localai.io/basics/build/index.html)
- [How to install in Kubernetes](https://localai.io/basics/getting_started/index.html#run-localai-in-kubernetes)
- [Projects integrating LocalAI](https://localai.io/docs/integrations/)
- [How tos section](https://io.midori-ai.xyz/howtos/) (curated by our community)

## :book: 🎥 [Media, Blogs, Social](https://localai.io/basics/news/#media-blogs-social)

- [Run Visual studio code with LocalAI (SUSE)](https://www.suse.com/c/running-ai-locally/)
- 🆕 [Run LocalAI on Jetson Nano Devkit](https://mudler.pm/posts/local-ai-jetson-nano-devkit/)
- [Run LocalAI on AWS EKS with Pulumi](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/low-code-llm-apps-with-local-ai-flowise-and-pulumi/)
- [Run LocalAI on AWS](https://staleks.hashnode.dev/installing-localai-on-aws-ec2-instance)
- [Create a slackbot for teams and OSS projects that answer to documentation](https://mudler.pm/posts/smart-slackbot-for-teams/)
- [LocalAI meets k8sgpt](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PKrDNuJ_dfE)
- [Question Answering on Documents locally with LangChain, LocalAI, Chroma, and GPT4All](https://mudler.pm/posts/localai-question-answering/)
- [Tutorial to use k8sgpt with LocalAI](https://medium.com/@tyler_97636/k8sgpt-localai-unlock-kubernetes-superpowers-for-free-584790de9b65)

## Citation

If you utilize this repository, data in a downstream project, please consider citing it with:

```
@misc{localai,
  author = {Ettore Di Giacinto},
  title = {LocalAI: The free, Open source OpenAI alternative},
  year = {2023},
  publisher = {GitHub},
  journal = {GitHub repository},
  howpublished = {\url{https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI}},
```

## ❤️ Sponsors

> Do you find LocalAI useful?

Support the project by becoming [a backer or sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/mudler). Your logo will show up here with a link to your website.

A huge thank you to our generous sponsors who support this project covering CI expenses, and our [Sponsor list](https://github.com/sponsors/mudler):

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.spectrocloud.com/" target="blank">
    <img height="200" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/72eab1dd-8b93-4fc0-9ade-84db49f24962">
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.premai.io/" target="blank">
    <img height="200" src="https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/assets/2420543/42e4ca83-661e-4f79-8e46-ae43689683d6"> <br>
  </a>
</p>

## 🌟 Star history

[![LocalAI Star history Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=go-skynet/LocalAI&type=Date)](https://star-history.com/#go-skynet/LocalAI&Date)

## 📖 License

LocalAI is a community-driven project created by [Ettore Di Giacinto](https://github.com/mudler/).

MIT - Author Ettore Di Giacinto <mudler@localai.io>

## 🙇 Acknowledgements

LocalAI couldn't have been built without the help of great software already available from the community. Thank you!

- [llama.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp)
- https://github.com/tatsu-lab/stanford_alpaca
- https://github.com/cornelk/llama-go for the initial ideas
- https://github.com/antimatter15/alpaca.cpp
- https://github.com/EdVince/Stable-Diffusion-NCNN
- https://github.com/ggerganov/whisper.cpp
- https://github.com/rhasspy/piper

## 🤗 Contributors

This is a community project, a special thanks to our contributors! 🤗
<a href="https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=go-skynet/LocalAI" />
</a>

Commit message:

feat: Complete MaxGPT white label rebrand
- Replace all LocalAI references with MaxGPT across 66+ files
- Implement purple gradient theme (#8b5cf6 to #3b82f6)
- Add BETA tags throughout interface
- Remove all creator references (Ettore Di Giacinto, mudler)
- Create MaxGPT logo suite with purple gradient M icon
- Update favicon, navbar, footer with MaxGPT branding
- Modify API documentation and swagger to show MaxGPT
- Update CLI descriptions and help text
- Create MaxGPT installation script
- Comprehensive Dockerfile with embedded branding changes
- Update README with MaxGPT branding and new badge

Files changed:
- 66 Go source files with MaxGPT branding
- All HTML templates with purple theme and BETA tags
- API documentation and swagger definitions
- README.md with complete MaxGPT description
- New MaxGPT logo assets and favicon
- Installation script and Docker configuration

Co-Authored-By: Yosi Wizman <yosiwizman5638@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
  <br>
  <img width="300" src="./static/maxgpt-logo.svg"> <br>
<br>
</h1>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/fork" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/forks/go-skynet/LocalAI?style=for-the-badge" alt="LocalAI forks"/>
</a>
<a href="https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/stargazers" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/go-skynet/LocalAI?style=for-the-badge" alt="LocalAI stars"/>
</a>
<a href="https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/pulls" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/go-skynet/LocalAI?style=for-the-badge" alt="LocalAI pull-requests"/>
</a>
<a href='https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/releases'>
<img src='https://img.shields.io/github/release/go-skynet/LocalAI?&label=Latest&style=for-the-badge'>
</a>
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://hub.docker.com/r/localai/localai" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/dockerhub-images-important.svg?logo=Docker" alt="LocalAI Docker hub"/>
</a>
<a href="https://quay.io/repository/go-skynet/local-ai?tab=tags&tag=latest" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/quay.io-images-important.svg?" alt="LocalAI Quay.io"/>
</a>
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://twitter.com/LocalAI_API" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/X-%23000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=X&logoColor=white&label=LocalAI_API" alt="Follow LocalAI_API"/>
</a>
<a href="https://discord.gg/uJAeKSAGDy" target="blank">
<img src="https://dcbadge.vercel.app/api/server/uJAeKSAGDy?style=flat-square&theme=default-inverted" alt="Join LocalAI Discord Community"/>
</a>
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://trendshift.io/repositories/5539" target="_blank"><img src="https://trendshift.io/api/badge/repositories/5539" alt="mudler%2FLocalAI | Trendshift" style="width: 250px; height: 55px;" width="250" height="55"/></a>
</p>

> :bulb: Get help - [❓FAQ](https://localai.io/faq/) [💭Discussions](https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/discussions) [:speech_balloon: Discord](https://discord.gg/uJAeKSAGDy) [:book: Documentation website](https://localai.io/)
>
> [💻 Quickstart](https://localai.io/basics/getting_started/) [🖼️ Models](https://models.localai.io/) [🚀 Roadmap](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aroadmap) [🥽 Demo](https://demo.localai.io) [🌍 Explorer](https://explorer.localai.io) [🛫 Examples](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI-examples) Try on 
[![Telegram](https://img.shields.io/badge/Telegram-2CA5E0?style=for-the-badge&logo=telegram&logoColor=white)](https://t.me/localaiofficial_bot)

[![MaxGPT](https://img.shields.io/badge/MaxGPT-BETA-8b5cf6?style=for-the-badge&logo=data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)](https://github.com/yosiwizman/local-maxgpt)

**MaxGPT** is the free, Open Source OpenAI alternative. MaxGPT acts as a drop-in replacement REST API that's compatible with OpenAI (Elevenlabs, Anthropic... ) API specifications for local AI inferencing. It allows you to run LLMs, generate images, audio (and not only) locally or on-prem with consumer grade hardware, supporting multiple model families. Does not require GPU.


## 📚🆕 Local Stack Family

🆕 LocalAI is now part of a comprehensive suite of AI tools designed to work together:

<table>
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="top">
      <a href="https://github.com/mudler/LocalAGI">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mudler/LocalAGI/refs/heads/main/webui/react-ui/public/logo_2.png" width="300" alt="LocalAGI Logo">
      </a>
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="top">
      <h3><a href="https://github.com/mudler/LocalAGI">LocalAGI</a></h3>
      <p>A powerful Local AI agent management platform that serves as a drop-in replacement for OpenAI's Responses API, enhanced with advanced agentic capabilities.</p>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" valign="top">
      <a href="https://github.com/mudler/LocalRecall">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mudler/LocalRecall/refs/heads/main/static/localrecall_horizontal.png" width="300" alt="LocalRecall Logo">
      </a>
    </td>
    <td width="50%" valign="top">
      <h3><a href="https://github.com/mudler/LocalRecall">LocalRecall</a></h3>
      <p>A REST-ful API and knowledge base management system that provides persistent memory and storage capabilities for AI agents.</p>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Screenshots


| Talk Interface | Generate Audio |
| --- | --- |
| ![Screenshot 2025-03-31 at 12-01-36 LocalAI - Talk](./docs/assets/images/screenshots/screenshot_tts.png) | ![Screenshot 2025-03-31 at 12-01-29 LocalAI - Generate audio with voice-en-us-ryan-low](./docs/assets/images/screenshots/screenshot_tts.png) |

| Models Overview | Generate Images |
| --- | --- |
| ![Screenshot 2025-03-31 at 12-01-20 LocalAI - Models](./docs/assets/images/screenshots/screenshot_gallery.png) | ![Screenshot 2025-03-31 at 12-31-41 LocalAI - Generate images with flux 1-dev](./docs/assets/images/screenshots/screenshot_image.png) |

| Chat Interface | Home |
| --- | --- |
| ![Screenshot 2025-03-31 at 11-57-44 LocalAI - Chat with localai-functioncall-qwen2 5-7b-v0 5](./docs/assets/images/screenshots/screenshot_chat.png) | ![Screenshot 2025-03-31 at 11-57-23 LocalAI API - c2a39e3 (c2a39e3639227cfd94ffffe9f5691239acc275a8)](./docs/assets/images/screenshots/screenshot_home.png) |

| Login | Swarm |
| --- | --- |
|![Screenshot 2025-03-31 at 12-09-59 ](./docs/assets/images/screenshots/screenshot_login.png) | ![Screenshot 2025-03-31 at 12-10-39 LocalAI - P2P dashboard](./docs/assets/images/screenshots/screenshot_p2p.png) |

## 💻 Quickstart

Run the installer script:

```bash
# Basic installation
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yosiwizman/local-maxgpt/master/install.sh | sh
```

For more installation options, see the documentation in this repository.

Or run with docker:

### CPU only image:

```bash
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 localai/localai:latest
```

### NVIDIA GPU Images:

```bash
# CUDA 12.0
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 --gpus all localai/localai:latest-gpu-nvidia-cuda-12

# CUDA 11.7
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 --gpus all localai/localai:latest-gpu-nvidia-cuda-11

# NVIDIA Jetson (L4T) ARM64
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 --gpus all localai/localai:latest-nvidia-l4t-arm64
```

### AMD GPU Images (ROCm):

```bash
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 --device=/dev/kfd --device=/dev/dri --group-add=video localai/localai:latest-gpu-hipblas
```

### Intel GPU Images (oneAPI):

```bash
# Intel GPU with FP16 support
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 --device=/dev/dri/card1 --device=/dev/dri/renderD128 localai/localai:latest-gpu-intel-f16

# Intel GPU with FP32 support
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 --device=/dev/dri/card1 --device=/dev/dri/renderD128 localai/localai:latest-gpu-intel-f32
```

### Vulkan GPU Images:

```bash
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 localai/localai:latest-gpu-vulkan
```

### AIO Images (pre-downloaded models):

```bash
# CPU version
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 localai/localai:latest-aio-cpu

# NVIDIA CUDA 12 version
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 --gpus all localai/localai:latest-aio-gpu-nvidia-cuda-12

# NVIDIA CUDA 11 version
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 --gpus all localai/localai:latest-aio-gpu-nvidia-cuda-11

# Intel GPU version
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 localai/localai:latest-aio-gpu-intel-f16

# AMD GPU version
docker run -ti --name local-ai -p 8080:8080 --device=/dev/kfd --device=/dev/dri --group-add=video localai/localai:latest-aio-gpu-hipblas
```

For more information about the AIO images and pre-downloaded models, see [Container Documentation](https://localai.io/basics/container/).

To load models:

```bash
# From the model gallery (see available models with `maxgpt models list` or in the WebUI from the model tab)
maxgpt run llama-3.2-1b-instruct:q4_k_m
# Start MaxGPT with the phi-2 model directly from huggingface
maxgpt run huggingface://TheBloke/phi-2-GGUF/phi-2.Q8_0.gguf
# Install and run a model from the Ollama OCI registry
local-ai run ollama://gemma:2b
# Run a model from a configuration file
local-ai run https://gist.githubusercontent.com/.../phi-2.yaml
# Install and run a model from a standard OCI registry (e.g., Docker Hub)
local-ai run oci://localai/phi-2:latest
```

> ⚡ **Automatic Backend Detection**: When you install models from the gallery or YAML files, LocalAI automatically detects your system's GPU capabilities (NVIDIA, AMD, Intel) and downloads the appropriate backend. For advanced configuration options, see [GPU Acceleration](https://localai.io/features/gpu-acceleration/#automatic-backend-detection).

For more information, see [💻 Getting started](https://localai.io/basics/getting_started/index.html)

## 📰 Latest project news

- July/August 2025: 🔍 [Object Detection](https://localai.io/features/object-detection/) added to the API featuring [rf-detr](https://github.com/roboflow/rf-detr)
- July 2025: All backends migrated outside of the main binary. LocalAI is now more lightweight, small, and automatically downloads the required backend to run the model. [Read the release notes](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/releases/tag/v3.2.0)
- June 2025: [Backend management](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/5607) has been added. Attention: extras images are going to be deprecated from the next release! Read [the backend management PR](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/5607).
- May 2025: [Audio input](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/5466) and [Reranking](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/5396) in llama.cpp backend, [Realtime API](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/5392),  Support to Gemma, SmollVLM, and more multimodal models (available in the gallery).
- May 2025: Important: image name changes [See release](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/releases/tag/v2.29.0)
- Apr 2025: Rebrand, WebUI enhancements
- Apr 2025: [LocalAGI](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAGI) and [LocalRecall](https://github.com/mudler/LocalRecall) join the LocalAI family stack.
- Apr 2025: WebUI overhaul, AIO images updates
- Feb 2025: Backend cleanup, Breaking changes, new backends (kokoro, OutelTTS, faster-whisper), Nvidia L4T images
- Jan 2025: LocalAI model release: https://huggingface.co/mudler/LocalAI-functioncall-phi-4-v0.3, SANA support in diffusers: https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/4603
- Dec 2024: stablediffusion.cpp backend (ggml) added ( https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/4289 )
- Nov 2024: Bark.cpp backend added ( https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/4287 )
- Nov 2024: Voice activity detection models (**VAD**) added to the API: https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/4204
- Oct 2024: examples moved to [LocalAI-examples](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI-examples)
- Aug 2024:  🆕 FLUX-1, [P2P Explorer](https://explorer.localai.io)
- July 2024: 🔥🔥 🆕 P2P Dashboard, LocalAI Federated mode and AI Swarms: https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/2723. P2P Global community pools: https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/issues/3113
- May 2024: 🔥🔥 Decentralized P2P llama.cpp:  https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/2343 (peer2peer llama.cpp!) 👉 Docs  https://localai.io/features/distribute/
- May 2024: 🔥🔥 Distributed inferencing: https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/2324
- April 2024: Reranker API: https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/pull/2121

Roadmap items: [List of issues](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aroadmap)

## 🚀 [Features](https://localai.io/features/)

- 🧩 [Backend Gallery](https://localai.io/backends/): Install/remove backends on the fly, powered by OCI images — fully customizable and API-driven.
- 📖 [Text generation with GPTs](https://localai.io/features/text-generation/) (`llama.cpp`, `transformers`, `vllm` ... [:book: and more](https://localai.io/model-compatibility/index.html#model-compatibility-table))
- 🗣 [Text to Audio](https://localai.io/features/text-to-audio/)
- 🔈 [Audio to Text](https://localai.io/features/audio-to-text/) (Audio transcription with `whisper.cpp`)
- 🎨 [Image generation](https://localai.io/features/image-generation)
- 🔥 [OpenAI-alike tools API](https://localai.io/features/openai-functions/) 
- 🧠 [Embeddings generation for vector databases](https://localai.io/features/embeddings/)
- ✍️ [Constrained grammars](https://localai.io/features/constrained_grammars/)
- 🖼️ [Download Models directly from Huggingface ](https://localai.io/models/)
- 🥽 [Vision API](https://localai.io/features/gpt-vision/)
- 🔍 [Object Detection](https://localai.io/features/object-detection/)
- 📈 [Reranker API](https://localai.io/features/reranker/)
- 🆕🖧 [P2P Inferencing](https://localai.io/features/distribute/)
- [Agentic capabilities](https://github.com/mudler/LocalAGI)
- 🔊 Voice activity detection (Silero-VAD support)
- 🌍 Integrated WebUI!


### 🔗 Community and integrations

Build and deploy custom containers:
- https://github.com/sozercan/aikit

WebUIs:
- https://github.com/Jirubizu/localai-admin
- https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI-frontend
- QA-Pilot(An interactive chat project that leverages LocalAI LLMs for rapid understanding and navigation of GitHub code repository) https://github.com/reid41/QA-Pilot

Model galleries
- https://github.com/go-skynet/model-gallery

Other:
- Helm chart https://github.com/go-skynet/helm-charts
- VSCode extension https://github.com/badgooooor/localai-vscode-plugin
- Langchain: https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/providers/localai/
- Terminal utility https://github.com/djcopley/ShellOracle
- Local Smart assistant https://github.com/mudler/LocalAGI
- Home Assistant https://github.com/sammcj/homeassistant-localai / https://github.com/drndos/hass-openai-custom-conversation / https://github.com/valentinfrlch/ha-gpt4vision
- Discord bot https://github.com/mudler/LocalAGI/tree/main/examples/discord
- Slack bot https://github.com/mudler/LocalAGI/tree/main/examples/slack
- Shell-Pilot(Interact with LLM using LocalAI models via pure shell scripts on your Linux or MacOS system) https://github.com/reid41/shell-pilot
- Telegram bot https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/tree/master/examples/telegram-bot
- Another Telegram Bot https://github.com/JackBekket/Hellper
- Auto-documentation https://github.com/JackBekket/Reflexia
- Github bot which answer on issues, with code and documentation as context https://github.com/JackBekket/GitHelper
- Github Actions: https://github.com/marketplace/actions/start-localai
- Examples: https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/tree/master/examples/
  

### 🔗 Resources

- [LLM finetuning guide](https://localai.io/docs/advanced/fine-tuning/)
- [How to build locally](https://localai.io/basics/build/index.html)
- [How to install in Kubernetes](https://localai.io/basics/getting_started/index.html#run-localai-in-kubernetes)
- [Projects integrating LocalAI](https://localai.io/docs/integrations/)
- [How tos section](https://io.midori-ai.xyz/howtos/) (curated by our community)

## :book: 🎥 [Media, Blogs, Social](https://localai.io/basics/news/#media-blogs-social)

- [Run Visual studio code with LocalAI (SUSE)](https://www.suse.com/c/running-ai-locally/)
- 🆕 [Run LocalAI on Jetson Nano Devkit](https://mudler.pm/posts/local-ai-jetson-nano-devkit/)
- [Run LocalAI on AWS EKS with Pulumi](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/low-code-llm-apps-with-local-ai-flowise-and-pulumi/)
- [Run LocalAI on AWS](https://staleks.hashnode.dev/installing-localai-on-aws-ec2-instance)
- [Create a slackbot for teams and OSS projects that answer to documentation](https://mudler.pm/posts/smart-slackbot-for-teams/)
- [LocalAI meets k8sgpt](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PKrDNuJ_dfE)
- [Question Answering on Documents locally with LangChain, LocalAI, Chroma, and GPT4All](https://mudler.pm/posts/localai-question-answering/)
- [Tutorial to use k8sgpt with LocalAI](https://medium.com/@tyler_97636/k8sgpt-localai-unlock-kubernetes-superpowers-for-free-584790de9b65)

## Citation

If you utilize this repository, data in a downstream project, please consider citing it with:

```
@misc{localai,
  author = {Ettore Di Giacinto},
  title = {LocalAI: The free, Open source OpenAI alternative},
  year = {2023},
  publisher = {GitHub},
  journal = {GitHub repository},
  howpublished = {\url{https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI}},
```

## ❤️ Sponsors

> Do you find LocalAI useful?

Support the project by becoming [a backer or sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/mudler). Your logo will show up here with a link to your website.

A huge thank you to our generous sponsors who support this project covering CI expenses, and our [Sponsor list](https://github.com/sponsors/mudler):

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.spectrocloud.com/" target="blank">
    <img height="200" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/72eab1dd-8b93-4fc0-9ade-84db49f24962">
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.premai.io/" target="blank">
    <img height="200" src="https://github.com/mudler/LocalAI/assets/2420543/42e4ca83-661e-4f79-8e46-ae43689683d6"> <br>
  </a>
</p>

## 🌟 Star history

[![LocalAI Star history Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=go-skynet/LocalAI&type=Date)](https://star-history.com/#go-skynet/LocalAI&Date)

## 📖 License

LocalAI is a community-driven project created by [Ettore Di Giacinto](https://github.com/mudler/).

MIT - Author Ettore Di Giacinto <mudler@localai.io>

## 🙇 Acknowledgements

LocalAI couldn't have been built without the help of great software already available from the community. Thank you!

- [llama.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp)
- https://github.com/tatsu-lab/stanford_alpaca
- https://github.com/cornelk/llama-go for the initial ideas
- https://github.com/antimatter15/alpaca.cpp
- https://github.com/EdVince/Stable-Diffusion-NCNN
- https://github.com/ggerganov/whisper.cpp
- https://github.com/rhasspy/piper

## 🤗 Contributors

This is a community project, a special thanks to our contributors! 🤗
<a href="https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=go-skynet/LocalAI" />
</a>
